IP allowlisting for serverless (#16910)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/cockroachcloud/network-authorization.md

---

> title: Network Authorization for CockroachDB Cloud clusters

Reviewer: I can't tell, but is this page specific to dedicated?

Author: no, it has links for both.

summary: Learn about the network authorization features for {{ site.data.products.db }} clusters.
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

{{ site.data.products.dedicated }} allows explicit configurations of the networks that can access your cluster.

> To prevent denial-of-service attacks, brute force password attacks, and other forms of malicious activity, Cockroach Labs recommends restricting your network to allow access only from specific IP address ranges controlled by your organization, according to the [Principle of Least Privilege (PoLP)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege). These might include specific networks for your application servers, hardened administrator access points, and backup-restore pipelines for disaster recovery.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to duplicate all of this meta text across IP allowlisting page and here?

> To prevent denial-of-service attacks, brute force password attacks, and other forms of malicious activity, Cockroach Labs recommends restricting your network to allow access only from specific IP address ranges controlled by your organization, according to the [Principle of Least Privilege (PoLP)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege). These might include specific networks for your application servers, hardened administrator access points, and backup-restore pipelines for disaster recovery.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To prevent denial-of-service attacks, brute force password attacks, and other forms of malicious activity, Cockroach Labs recommends restricting your network to allow access only from specific IP address ranges controlled by your organization. These might include specific networks for your application deployments, hardened administrator access points, or disaster recovery pipelines.
```

## Options for controlling network access

You can authorize network access to your cluster by:

- [Adding an authorized range of public IP addresses](#ip-allowlisting).

> - Setting up [Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) peering](#vpc-peering) or [Amazon Web Service (AWS) PrivateLink](#aws-privatelink) for your cluster (Dedicated clusters only). Access via [GCP VPC peering](#vpc-peering) or [AWS PrivateLink](#aws-privatelink) avoids traversing the public internet, and therefore offers several advantages:

Reviewer: If this page is for serverless and dedicated, I just want it to be clear that VPC peering and PrivateLink are not supported for serverless. PrivateLink is coming soon, but VPC peering will never work with serverless.

Author: It does say "(Dedicated clusters only)". Not sure how to flag this harder, could use a callout element but that would kind of break up the list flow. It also flags that these features are ded only in the first sentence of the description section for each of the features. I feel it's sufficiently flagged, but perhaps @kathancox has a suggestion for making it clearer. thanks!

> - Setting up [Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) peering](#vpc-peering) or [Amazon Web Service (AWS) PrivateLink](#aws-privatelink) for your cluster (Dedicated clusters only). Access via [GCP VPC peering](#vpc-peering) or [AWS PrivateLink](#aws-privatelink) avoids traversing the public internet, and therefore offers several advantages:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Setting up [Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) peering](#vpc-peering) or [Amazon Web Service (AWS) PrivateLink](#aws-privatelink) for your cluster (Dedicated clusters only). Access via [GCP VPC peering](#vpc-peering) or [AWS PrivateLink](#aws-privatelink) avoids traversing the public network, and therefore offers several advantages:
```

>     - Enhanced network security (no public IPs, no transit over public networks).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Enhanced network security (no access through public IPs i.e. no transit over public networks).
```

>     - Direct connection to application servers that do not have static public IPs

Reviewer 3: Nit: missing period on this one.

    - Reduced lower network latency.

>     - This option can also be helpful if you need more than the current maximum of 20 authorized networks per cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - This option can also be helpful if you need more than the current maximum limit of authorized networks per cluster.
```

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

During [limited access](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.html), neither Azure Private Link nor private clusters are available for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters on Azure. Refer to [{{ site.data.products.dedicated }} on Azure](cockroachdb-dedicated-on-azure.html).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> ## Cluster default network configuration

Reviewer 2: Should this go as a sub-section in IP allowlisting?

Author: no, because the 'lockdown' nature of dedicated clusters on creation includes other kinds of networking as well.

{{ site.data.products.dedicated }} and Serverless clusters differ in their default network configuration:

> - On creation, a Serverless cluster is open to all traffic as it is created with a 0.0.0.0/0 IP allowlist entry.

Reviewer 3: Nit: "0.0.0.0/0" --> "`0.0.0.0/0`"

- On creation, a Dedicated cluster is "locked down" and has no access until an authorized network is created.

{{ site.data.products.db }} clusters can only accept SQL connections from [allowed IP addresses](#ip-allowlisting).

## IP allowlisting

Authorized network access can be managed from the {{ site.data.products.db }} console Network Authorization page at:

`https://cockroachlabs.cloud/cluster/{ your cluster UUID}/networking`

> You can add up to 20 IP addresses to your allowlist. If your application servers’ IP addresses are not static, or you want to limit your cluster's exposure to the public network, you can connect to your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters using VPC Peering or AWS PrivateLink instead.

Reviewer 2: This is for dedicated only, so may need to qualify it now.

> You can add up to 20 IP addresses to your allowlist. If your application servers’ IP addresses are not static, or you want to limit your cluster's exposure to the public network, you can connect to your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters using VPC Peering or AWS PrivateLink instead.

Author: ```suggestion
You can add up to 20 IP addresses to your allowlist. If your application servers’ IP addresses are not static, or you want to limit your cluster's exposure to the public network, you can use VPC Peering or AWS PrivateLink instead (Dedicated clusters only).
```

Refer to:

> - [Connect to a {{ site.data.products.serverless }} Cluster: Authorize your network](connect-to-a-serverless-cluster.html#authorize-your-network)

Reviewer 2: Can we make sure that the flow and organization of information is such that the core info is all within the specific new page and we're just linking to that from other places?

## AWS PrivateLink

If your cloud provider is AWS, you can use [AWS PrivateLink](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/) to securely connect your AWS application with your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster using a private endpoint. Like VPC Peering, a PrivateLink connection will prevent your traffic from being exposed to the public internet and reduce network latency. 

> Refer to: [Managing AWS PrivateLink for a Dedicated Cluster](aws-privatelink.html)

Reviewer 3: Nit: period to end of sentence.
